What is Vectors?

Vectors are same as dynamic arrays with the ability to resize itself automatically when an element is inserted or deleted, with their storage being handled automatically by the container. Vector elements are placed in contiguous storage so that they can be accessed and traversed using iterators. In vectors, data is inserted at the end. Inserting at the end takes differential time, as sometimes there may be a need of extending the array. Removing the last element takes only constant time because no resizing happens. Inserting and erasing at the beginning or in the middle is linear in time.

Certain Functions associated with the vector are:
Iterators

1.begin(): This function returns an iterator pointing to the first element of vector.
2.end(): This function return an iterator pointing to the element behind the last element of the vector.
3.cbegin(): This function returns a constant iterator pointing to the first element of vector.
4.cend(): This function returns an iterator pointing to the element behind last element of vector.
5.rbegin():This function returns a reverse iterator pointing to the last element of vector.
6.rend():This function returns a reverse iterator pointing to the preceding element before the first element of vector.


Accessing the elements:

1.at(j)-Returns a reference to element at position 'j'.
2.front()-Returns a reference to first element.
3.back()- Returns a reference to last element;
4.a.operator()[j]:Returns a reference to element at position 'j'


Capacity:

1.size() – Returns the number of elements in the vector.
2.max_size() – Returns the maximum number of elements that the vector can hold.
3.capacity() – Returns the size of the storage space currently allocated to the 4.vector expressed as number of elements.
5.resize(n) – Resizes the container so that it contains ‘n’ elements.
6.empty() – Returns whether the container is empty.



Modifiers:

1.push_back(): The function inserts the elements into a vector from the back.
2.assign(): It assigns a new value to the vector elements by replacing old ones.
3.pop_back(): The pop_back() function is used to pop or remove the last elements from a vector.
4.insert(): This function inserts new elements before the position specified by the iterator.
5.erase(): This function is used to remove elements from a container from the specified position or range.
6.swap(): This function is used to swap the contents of one vector with another vector of the same type. Sizes may differ.
7.clear(): This function is used to remove all the elements of the vector container




